README.md, before:

# C# Mastery

Repo to brush up on C# using the C# YouTube course by [Bro Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxznTygnRfQ)

## Projects

This is a list of projects created to re-inforce learning C# concepts.

| Table of Contents                                                                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Project 1 - [Hello Daphne](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-1---hello-daphne)                           |
| Project 2 - [Greeter](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-2---greeter)                                     |
| Project 3 - [Simple Birthday Countdown](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-3---simple-birthday-countdown) |
| Project 4 - [Random Numbers](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-4---random-numbers)            |
| Project 5 - [Roll Dice](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-5---roll-dice)                 |
| Project 6 -                                                                                                                |
| Project 7 -                                                                                                                |
| Project 8 -                                                                                                                |

## Running the Projects

1. Clone the [csharpmastery](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery.git) repository
2. Open the project directory you would like to demo, then open the .sln file in Visual Studio. An example .sln file would be HelloDaphne.sln that is found in the HelloDaphne directory.
3. In Visual Studio, run the application by doing one of the following options:

   - Press the F5 key on your keyboard
   - Click the green play button on the toolbar next to the name of the project HelloDaphne

     ![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RunningProjectsReadmeAssets/play-button.png?raw=true)

   - From the menu, click Debug > Start Debugging

     ![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RunningProjectsReadmeAssets/start-debugging.png?raw=true)

4. The console window will launch and display output on the screen.

### Project 1 - Hello Daphne

This is a console app that displays "Hello Daphne!" to the screen.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/HelloDaphneReadmeAssets/console-window.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 2 - Greeter

This is a console app that takes user input and greets the user by saying Hello and whatever the name is they entered.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/GreeterReadmeAssets/greeter.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 3 - Simple Birthday Countdown

This is a console app that asks for a month and day and outputs a specific happy birthday message depending on the values entered. If the birthday is yet to pass, the app displays how many days until the user's birthday.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/birthday-passed.png?raw=true)

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/birthday-today.png?raw=true)

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/future-birthday.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 4 - Random Numbers

This is a console app that generates a pseudo-random number between 1 and any number of the user's choosing.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RandomNumbersAssets/random-numbers.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 5 - Roll Dice

This is a console app that asks if a user wants to roll a die. The app will randomly generate a number between 1 and 6, in order to simulate one die rolling. The app runs as long as the user wants to continue rolling the die.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RollDiceAssets/rolldice.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

Commit message:

2 projects and readme added
Added list of movies project to showcase use of arrays and a robot project to showcase the use of classes.

README.md, after:

# C# Mastery

Repo to brush up on C# using the C# YouTube course by [Bro Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxznTygnRfQ)

## Projects

This is a list of projects created to re-inforce learning C# concepts.

| Table of Contents                                                                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Project 1 - [Hello Daphne](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-1---hello-daphne)                           |
| Project 2 - [Greeter](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-2---greeter)                                     |
| Project 3 - [Simple Birthday Countdown](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-3---simple-birthday-countdown) |
| Project 4 - [Random Numbers](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-4---random-numbers)                       |
| Project 5 - [Roll Dice](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-5---roll-dice)                                 |
| Project 6 - [List Movies](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-6---list-movies)                             |
| Project 7 - [Friendly Robot Helper](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#project-7---friendly-robot-helper)         |
| Project 8 -                                                                                                                |

## Running the Projects

1. Clone the [csharpmastery](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery.git) repository
2. Open the project directory you would like to demo, then open the .sln file in Visual Studio. An example .sln file would be HelloDaphne.sln that is found in the HelloDaphne directory.
3. In Visual Studio, run the application by doing one of the following options:

   - Press the F5 key on your keyboard
   - Click the green play button on the toolbar next to the name of the project HelloDaphne

     ![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RunningProjectsReadmeAssets/play-button.png?raw=true)

   - From the menu, click Debug > Start Debugging

     ![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RunningProjectsReadmeAssets/start-debugging.png?raw=true)

4. The console window will launch and display output on the screen.

### Project 1 - Hello Daphne

This is a console app that displays "Hello Daphne!" to the screen.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/HelloDaphneReadmeAssets/console-window.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 2 - Greeter

This is a console app that takes user input and greets the user by saying Hello and whatever the name is they entered.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/GreeterReadmeAssets/greeter.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 3 - Simple Birthday Countdown

This is a console app that asks for a month and day and outputs a specific happy birthday message depending on the values entered. If the birthday is yet to pass, the app displays how many days until the user's birthday.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/birthday-passed.png?raw=true)

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/birthday-today.png?raw=true)

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/SimpleBirthdayCountdownAssets/future-birthday.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 4 - Random Numbers

This is a console app that generates a pseudo-random number between 1 and any number of the user's choosing.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RandomNumbersAssets/random-numbers.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 5 - Roll Dice

This is a console app that asks if a user wants to roll a die. The app will randomly generate a number between 1 and 6, in order to simulate one die rolling. The app runs as long as the user wants to continue rolling the die.

From a technical side, this app makes use of the switch statement.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/RollDiceAssets/rolldice.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 6 - List Movies

This is a very simple console app that displays a list of movies on the screen.

From a technical perspective, this app makes use of arrays.

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)

### Project 7 - Friendly Robot Helper

This is a console app that simulates a Robot introducing themselves and performing some helpful tasks.

From a technical perspective, this app makes use of classes, specifically a separate Robot class to introduce OOP.

![image](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery/blob/main/Assets/FriendlyRobotAssets/helper-robot-simple.png?raw=true)

[Back to Top](https://github.com/thisislink/csharpmastery#projects)
